---
title: "How to Develop Confidence in Anything"
date: "2022-05-25"
tags: ["values"]
---

# Purpose

This documents an epiphany I had for a sure fire method to develop the
confidence necessary in almost any part of life.

# Why

Confidence is a valuable tool in most any endeavor you'd like to undertake.
Whether in your career, in sports, or in attracting a partner, confidence can
influence outcomes so that they're in your favor. I daresay few, if any, other
qualities even compare to confidence in helping you achieve your desires in such
a vastly different array of realms. On the other hand a lack of confidence can
make an unfavorable outcome far more likely, or even certain. Thus if you care
at all about outcomes in your life, you should care about this topic.

# Methodology

So, how do you do it? How do you develop the confidence in any area of your life
that can help you reach your goals? What's the secret sauce that I learned?

Alright no more dilly dallying, here it is, if you want to become confident in
any area, the thing you need to do is simple: whatever your goal is, attempt,
and hopefully succeed, at something 3x the difficulty of your goal. That's it,
simple right? For example, if you want to develop the confidence such that you
know you can run 3 miles, all you need to do is run 9 miles first. Easy. I
guarantee that this method will work for you. In fact, it doesn't have to be 3x,
2x is likely sufficient, but the higher the difficulty when compared to the
original goal, the more likely you'll have high levels of confidence when
approaching your original goal.

Want to squat 100 pounds? Work your way up to 200, and you'll have the
confidence to do 100 anytime of day. Want that promotion at work? Develop the
skills and take on the assignments for things 1 level above what you're aiming
for. Want to impress that girl on a date? Go out with 5 other girls who are as
pretty and impress them all. Want to start a business? Start and finish 3
businesses first. Easy.

## Failure

Now, incase you didn't notice, the realization above is a joke...at least
partially. It is an obvious idea, but it's also a subtle idea in that if you
even attempt to apply it, it can work.

If you succeed in the methodology above, then life is really easy for you and
you'll have the confidence you sought when approaching your original goal. Let's
instead talk about when life is hard, and when you likely fail at your 3x goal.
Can this methodology still help you even if you fail in the harder goal? Well
let's look at the first example I gave, let's say you're goal is to run 3 miles
with confidence, following the methodology you aimed for 9 miles, but you only
managed 5 miles. Would you have more confidence in your ability to run 3 miles?
Hell yes you would. Your goal is to impress a partner on a date, well even if
you go out with 1 other person beforehand and have a bad date, you'll have more
experience, and that in itself will lead to confidence. That's the beauty of
this idea, even attempting it with failure as the result will give you
experience, and an understanding of your limits that you can grow from.

This is really the inverse of the standard approach of running .5 mile, then 1
mile, then 2 miles, and finally hitting your goal of 3 miles. Instead of
spending time building up the confidence little by little, you shoot for the
moon, and see where your limit truly is and then you can use that point as your
foundation to build on top of. It's much quicker than the standard approach and
helps you blow past baby goals when deep inside you you're already capable of
far more. If you listen to David Goggins at all, what I'm saying should ring a
bell, most people don't even know what they're capable of, or are just afraid
and as a result they aim far too low. This method counteracts that and shows you
what you're capable of, and best of all, you will likely gain confidence even
when you experience failure.

# Risks

Don't be stupid. Set a reasonable 3x goal. If you want to run 3 miles, but weigh
700 pounds and try running 9 miles you'll likely break your legs or worse. If
you have a goal to go on 10 dates, but can't even talk to a member of the
opposite gender than maybe saying a full sentence to someone remotely attractive
should be your 3x goal. You likely have some vague ideas of what your physical,
mental, and social limits are, and you are allowed to get near them with the
above methodology, but should only fly pass them at your own risk. The above
methodology works really well if you don't know where your limits are and want a
quick way to test the waters. However, while you're attempting your goal, you
should realize pretty quickly where your limits are, and if you happen to be the
700 pound person shooting for 9 miles, but feeling leg pain at 1 mile, I'd
advise you to stop for now, and realize that 1 mile is a huge accomplishment,
and that maybe 1.5 miles is a reasonable first goal. Use the above methodology
at your own risk. That's the end of my disclaimer.
